Adds missing description for usage in a laminas-mvc based application (#36)
laminas/laminas-eventmanager: doc/book/application-integration/usage-in-a-laminas-mvc-application.md

# Usage in a laminas-mvc Application

The following example shows _one_ potential use case of laminas-eventmanager within
a laminas-mvc based application.
The example creates a listener for logging errors of an application with [laminas-log](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-log/).

Before starting, make sure laminas-log is [installed and configured](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-log/installation/).

laminas-eventmanager is already present in laminas-mvc based applications as it is an event-driven MVC layer based on the event manager.

## Create Listener

> Create a listener as class using [a listener aggregate](../aggregates.md) and add the logger via constructor injection to create a valid object with all required dependencies, e.g. `module/Application/src/Listener/ErrorListener.php`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create [a listener aggregate](../aggregates.md) that defines and registers a listener, using a logger injected via its constructor; as an example, consider the following definition in the file `module/Application/src/Listener/ErrorListener.php`:
```

```php
namespace Application\Listener;

use Exception;
use Laminas\EventManager\AbstractListenerAggregate;
use Laminas\EventManager\EventManagerInterface;

> use Laminas\Log\Logger;

Reviewer 2: Should we endorse using a PSR logger? :thinking:

Author: The laminas-log component enjoys automatic and seamless integration in a laminas-mvc based application via the laminas-component-installer, so I took these instead of a PSR logger.

Reviewer 2: Fair enough

Author: The question is valid, because I have also been thinking about this topic for a while.

use Laminas\Mvc\MvcEvent;

final class ErrorListener extends AbstractListenerAggregate
{
    public function __construct(
        private readonly Logger $logger
    ) {}

    public function attach(EventManagerInterface $events, $priority = 1): void
    {
        $this->listeners[] = $events->attach(
            MvcEvent::EVENT_DISPATCH_ERROR,
            [$this, 'onDispatchError']
        );
    }

    public function onDispatchError(MvcEvent $event): void
    {
        /** @var Exception|null $exception */
        $exception = $event->getParam('exception');
        if ($exception) {
            $this->logger->crit('Error: ' . $exception->getMessage());
        } else {
            $this->logger->crit('Error: ' . $event->getError());
        }
    }
}
```

> The listener aggregate was chosen because [it can listen to even more events](../aggregates.md#recommendations) due to the possible extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The listener aggregate was chosen because [to allow it to listen to additional events](../aggregates.md#recommendations) if we want to later.
```

> The listener aggregate was chosen because [to allow it to listen to additional events](../aggregates.md#recommendations) if we want to later.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps:
> The listener aggregate was chosen because it is capable of listening to multiple events, which could prove useful in future.

NOTE: **More Events**

> All events that can be triggered are listed and explained in the [documentation of laminas-mvc](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/mvc-event/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All laminas-mvc events that can be triggered are listed and explained in the [laminas-mvc documentation](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/mvc-event/).
```

## Register Listener

> To register a listener in a laminas-mvc based application use the application or module configuration, such as `config/autload/global.php` or `module/Application/config/module.config.php`, and the configuration key `listeners`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register a listener in a laminas-mvc based application, use either application or module configuration (such as `config/autload/global.php` or `module/Application/config/module.config.php`, respectively), and define the configuration key `listeners`.
```

> To register a listener in a laminas-mvc based application, use either application or module configuration (such as `config/autload/global.php` or `module/Application/config/module.config.php`, respectively), and define the configuration key `listeners`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To register a listener in a laminas-mvc based application, use either application or module configuration (such as `config/autoload/global.php` or `module/Application/config/module.config.php`, respectively), and define the configuration key `listeners`.
```

Author: Good catch! 👍🏻

> The current example uses the module configuration, e.g. `module/Application/config/module.config.php`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses module configuration, e.g. `module/Application/config/module.config.php`:
```

> <pre class="language-php" data-line="4-6"><code>

Reviewer 2: Is `pre` preferable, compared to triple-backticks? Or is this just for highlighting?

Author: > Or is this just for highlighting?

Correct, the Markdown extension does not allow / support to add `data-*` attributes which are used for line highlight.

Example: https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-form/v3/application-integration/usage-in-a-laminas-mvc-application/#register-form-and-controller

Reference:

* https://prismjs.com/plugins/line-highlight/
* https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/main/doc/Rules.md#md033

namespace Application;

return [
    'listeners' => [
        Listener\ErrorListener::class,
    ],
    // …
];
</code></pre>

All listeners registered in this way are fetched from the application service container.

> This means the listeners must be registered for the application service container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means the listeners must be registered for the application service container to discover and create them.
```

To register the listener for the application service container, extend the configuration of the module.
Add the following lines to the module configuration file, e.g. `module/Application/config/module.config.php`:

> <pre class="language-php" data-line="3,8"><code>

Reviewer 2: This uses `data-line="3,8"`, while above it uses a range? Intentional? (just asking - unfamiliar with syntax in here)

Author: Lines can be highlighted as groups or individually, and there can be multiple highlights in one block of code.

namespace Application;

use Laminas\ServiceManager\AbstractFactory\ReflectionBasedAbstractFactory;

return [
    'service_manager' => [
        'factories' => [
            Listener\ErrorListener::class => ReflectionBasedAbstractFactory::class,
        ],
    ],
    // …
];
</code></pre>

The example uses the [reflection factory from laminas-servicemanager](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-servicemanager/reflection-abstract-factory/) to resolve the constructor dependencies for the listener class.

If the listener has no dependencies, use the [factory `Laminas\ServiceManager\Factory\InvokableFactory`](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-servicemanager/configuring-the-service-manager/#factories).

## Logging Message

> To log a message, produce a [dispatch error](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/mvc-event/#mvceventevent_dispatch_error-dispatcherror) by navigate to `http://localhost:8080/1234`, and the 404 page should be displayed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To log a message, produce a [dispatch error](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/mvc-event/#mvceventevent_dispatch_error-dispatcherror) by navigating to `http://localhost:8080/1234`, where a 404 page should be displayed.
```
